---
layout: post
title: "Workshop: Archiving Oral History and Secondary Analysis with Paul Thompson"
date: 2018-09-06 14:48:43 -0700
categories: uncategorized
author: Jason Camlot
icon: "assets/img/Paul_Thompson.jpeg"
---

The Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling, the Concordia Library and the Spokenweb Project are proud to co-sponsor a two hour workshop on “**Archiving Oral History and Secondary Analysis**” with Paul Thompson, one of the founders of global oral history. He is the author of the classic text *The Voice of the Past* (4th edition 2017) as well as other key books such as *The Myths We Live* By (with Raphael Samuel).

**Wednesday October 10th, 9:00-11:00**
**@ COHDS (LB 1042)**

The workshop will explore a series of key questions facing oral historians:

1. Why archive oral history interviews? How can you decide which sets of interviews are most worth archiving? What are the most important forms of accessibility and finding aids? What are the ethical and copyright issues involved in using material collected for other purposes?
2. Why secondary analysis? Using earlier data as a pilot for your own fieldwork research. Extending your sample base by using previously collected data. Studies of your material by other researchers. Restudies over time.
3. What are the difficulties? Losing the feel of collecting original data. Interpreting data collected in other contexts.
4. The value of mixed methods: combining your own and other’s data.

---

The event will take place on October 10, 2018 from 9:00-11:00 AM at the Centre for Oral History and Digital Storytelling (LB 1042).

It is presented as part of the 2018 Oral History Associations Annual Meeting taking place at Concordia from October 10-14.

For more information about the OHA Conference, visit:
http://www.oralhistory.org/annual-meeting/

